[Documentation](../../../../index.md)/[Standards](../../../index.md)/
[Security](../../index.md)/[OWASP](../index.md)/[2025](index.md)/A04:2021 – Insecure Design

[Normative documentation](https://owasp.org/Top10/A04_2021-Insecure_Design/)

# A04:2021 – Insecure Design

## Overview

A new category for 2021 focuses on risks related to design and architectural flaws, with a call for more use 
of threat modeling, secure design patterns, and reference architectures. As a community we need to move beyond 
"shift-left" in the coding space to pre-code activities that are critical for the principles of Secure by Design. 
Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs) include CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive 
Information, CWE-256: Unprotected Storage of Credentials, CWE-501: Trust Boundary Violation, and 
CWE-522: Insufficiently Protected Credentials.

## Description

Insecure design is a broad category representing different weaknesses, expressed as “missing or ineffective 
control design.” Insecure design is not the source for all other Top 10 risk categories. There is a difference 
between insecure design and insecure implementation. We differentiate between design flaws and implementation 
defects for a reason, they have different root causes and remediation. A secure design can still have implementation 
defects leading to vulnerabilities that may be exploited. An insecure design cannot be fixed by a perfect 
implementation as by definition, needed security controls were never created to defend against specific attacks. 
One of the factors that contribute to insecure design is the lack of business risk profiling inherent in the 
software or system being developed, and thus the failure to determine what level of security design is required.

### Requirements and Resource Management

Collect and negotiate the business requirements for an application with the business, including the protection 
requirements concerning confidentiality, integrity, availability, and authenticity of all data assets and the 
expected business logic. Take into account how exposed your application will be and if you need segregation of 
tenants (additionally to access control). Compile the technical requirements, including functional and non-functional 
security requirements. Plan and negotiate the budget covering all design, build, testing, and operation, including 
security activities.

### Secure Design

Secure design is a culture and methodology that constantly evaluates threats and ensures that code is robustly 
designed and tested to prevent known attack methods. Threat modeling should be integrated into refinement sessions 
(or similar activities); look for changes in data flows and access control or other security controls. In the user 
story development determine the correct flow and failure states, ensure they are well understood and agreed upon by 
responsible and impacted parties. Analyze assumptions and conditions for expected and failure flows, ensure they are 
still accurate and desirable. Determine how to validate the assumptions and enforce conditions needed for proper 
behaviors. Ensure the results are documented in the user story. Learn from mistakes and offer positive incentives to 
promote improvements. Secure design is neither an add-on nor a tool that you can add to software.

### Secure Development Lifecycle

Secure software requires a secure development lifecycle, some form of secure design pattern, paved road methodology, 
secured component library, tooling, and threat modeling. Reach out for your security specialists at the beginning of 
a software project throughout the whole project and maintenance of your software. Consider leveraging the 
OWASP Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) to help structure your secure software development efforts.

## How to Prevent

|Mitigation|Solution|DEV|OPS|OCI|NIS|eVZP|
|----------|--------|---|---|---|---|----|
|Establish and use a secure development lifecycle with AppSec professionals to help evaluate and design security and privacy-related controls|NONE|NO|NO|NO|Not applicable|Not applicable|
|Establish and use a library of secure design patterns or paved road ready to use components|Follow the guidance|YES|NO|NO|PR????|PR????|
|Use threat modeling for critical authentication, access control, business logic, and key flows|Unclear discussion needed|NO|NO|NO|Not applicable|Not applicable|
|Integrate security language and controls into user stories|Must be deliver by BA and ARC|NO|NO|NO|Not plaicable|Not applicable|
|Integrate plausibility checks at each tier of your application (from frontend to backend)|Unclear discussion is needed|NO|NO|NO|Not applciable|Not applicable|
|Write unit and integration tests to validate that all critical flows are resistant to the threat model|Write unit and integration tests|YES|NO|NO|PR????|PR????|
|Compile use-cases and misuse-cases for each tier of your application.|Uncler discussion needed|NO|NO|NO|Not applicable|Not applicable|
|Segregate tier layers on the system and network layers depending on the exposure and protection needs|Follow the rules|NO|YES|NO|PR????|PR????|
|Segregate tenants robustly by design throughout all tiers|Not applicable|NO|NO|NO|Not applicable|Not applicable|
|Limit resource consumption by user or service|Apply the limits|YES|NO|YES|PR????|PR????|