[Documentation](../../../../index.md)/[Standards](../../../index.md)/
[Security](../../index.md)/[OWASP](../index.md)/[2021](index.md)/A03:2021 – Injection

[Normative documentation](https://owasp.org/Top10/A03_2021-Injection/)

# A03:2021 – Injection

## Overview

Injection slides down to the third position. 94% of the applications were tested for some form of 
injection with a max incidence rate of 19%, an average incidence rate of 3%, and 274k occurrences. 
Notable Common Weakness Enumerations (CWEs) included are CWE-79: Cross-site Scripting, CWE-89: SQL 
Injection, and CWE-73: External Control of File Name or Path.

# Description

An application is vulnerable to attack when:

- User-supplied data is not validated, filtered, or sanitized by the application.
- Dynamic queries or non-parameterized calls without context-aware escaping are used directly in the 
interpreter.
- Hostile data is used within object-relational mapping (ORM) search parameters to extract additional, 
sensitive records.
- Hostile data is directly used or concatenated. The SQL or command contains the structure and malicious 
data in dynamic queries, commands, or stored procedures.

Some of the more common injections are SQL, NoSQL, OS command, Object Relational Mapping (ORM), LDAP, 
and Expression Language (EL) or Object Graph Navigation Library (OGNL) injection. The concept is identical 
among all interpreters. Source code review is the best method of detecting if applications are vulnerable 
to injections. Automated testing of all parameters, headers, URL, cookies, JSON, SOAP, and XML data inputs 
is strongly encouraged. Organizations can include static (SAST), dynamic (DAST), and interactive (IAST) 
application security testing tools into the CI/CD pipeline to identify introduced injection flaws before 
production deployment.

## How to Prevent

Preventing injection requires keeping data separate from commands and queries:

|Mitigation|Solution|DEV|OPS|NIS|eVZP|
|----------|--------|---|---|---|----|
|The preferred option is to use a safe API, which avoids using the interpreter entirely, provides a parameterized interface, or migrates to Object Relational Mapping Tools (ORMs).|Implement using propper frameworks|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
|Use positive server-side input validation. This is not a complete defense as many applications require special characters, such as text areas or APIs for mobile applications.|Use server side validation of parameters|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
|For any residual dynamic queries, escape special characters using the specific escape syntax for that interpreter.|Use characrer escaping methods for input parameters whne needed|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
