[Documentation](../../../../index.md)/[Standards](../../../index.md)/
[Security](../../index.md)/[OWASP](../index.md)/[2021](index.md)/A09:2021 – Security Logging and Monitoring Failures 

[Normative documentation]()

# A09:2021 – Security Logging and Monitoring Failures

## Overview

Security logging and monitoring came from the Top 10 community survey (#3), up slightly from the tenth position in 
the OWASP Top 10 2017. Logging and monitoring can be challenging to test, often involving interviews or asking if 
attacks were detected during a penetration test. There isn't much CVE/CVSS data for this category, but detecting 
and responding to breaches is critical. Still, it can be very impactful for accountability, visibility, incident 
alerting, and forensics. This category expands beyond CWE-778 Insufficient Logging to include CWE-117 Improper Output 
Neutralization for Logs, CWE-223 Omission of Security-relevant Information, and CWE-532 Insertion of Sensitive 
Information into Log File.

# Description

Returning to the OWASP Top 10 2021, this category is to help detect, escalate, and respond to active breaches. 
Without logging and monitoring, breaches cannot be detected. Insufficient logging, detection, monitoring, and 
active response occurs any time:

- Auditable events, such as logins, failed logins, and high-value transactions, are not logged.
- Warnings and errors generate no, inadequate, or unclear log messages.
- Logs of applications and APIs are not monitored for suspicious activity.
- Logs are only stored locally.
- Appropriate alerting thresholds and response escalation processes are not in place or effective.
- Penetration testing and scans by dynamic application security testing (DAST) tools (such as OWASP ZAP) do not 
trigger alerts.
- The application cannot detect, escalate, or alert for active attacks in real-time or near real-time.
- You are vulnerable to information leakage by making logging and alerting events visible to a user or an attacker 
see [A01:2021-Broken Access Control](./a01-2021.md).
- You are vulnerable to injections or attacks on the logging or monitoring systems if log data is not correctly encoded.

## How to Prevent

Developers should implement some or all the following controls, depending on the risk of the application:

|Mitigation|Solution|DEV|OPS|NIS|eVZP|
|----------|--------|---|---|---|----|
|Ensure all login, access control, and server-side input validation failures can be logged with sufficient user context to identify suspicious or malicious accounts and held for enough time to allow delayed forensic analysis.|Implement audit|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
|Ensure that logs are generated in a format that log management solutions can easily consume.|Implement requirement|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
|Ensure log data is encoded correctly to prevent injections or attacks on the logging or monitoring systems.|Verify implementaion|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
|Ensure high-value transactions have an audit trail with integrity controls to prevent tampering or deletion, such as append-only database tables or similar.|Implement audit and integrity controls|YES|NO|task or NOA|task or NOA|
|DevSecOps teams should establish effective monitoring and alerting such that suspicious activities are detected and responded to quickly.|Follow requirements|NO|NO|Not applicable|Not applicable|
|Establish or adopt an incident response and recovery plan, such as National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-61r2 or later.|Follow requirements|NO|NO|Not applicable|Not applicable|

There are commercial and open-source application protection frameworks such as the OWASP ModSecurity Core Rule Set, and 
open-source log correlation software, such as the Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana (ELK) stack, that feature custom dashboards 
and alerting.
